# Data-Science-Analysis Project

Energy prediction play an important role in building an energy efficient system. In this project, the comparative analysis was performed on energy consumption dataset to analyze the energy trends. A method to predict energy consumptions profile for two month duration by using LSTM in Recurrent Neural Networks is proposed and the proximity of the predicted and actual values were examined.
(Long Short-Term Memory) model is used here for making predictions based on time-series datasets. Long Short-Term Memory (LSTM) models are a type of recurrent neural network capable of learning sequences of observations. Dropout is used, which has the effect of reducing overfitting and improving model performance. Feature scaling was done to import the data set into the Python script. MinMaxScaler class from Scikit-learn is used to apply normalization to a dataset. After importing this class into the Python script. : TensorFlow’s Sequential class is initialized to build neural networks by adding sequences of layers over time. The first layer to be added was an LSTM layer. Dropout regularization is now done to avoid overfitting when training neural networks. fter reprocessing the final x test data variable to meet TensorFlow standards, actual predictions can be performed. The x test data object is passed into the predict() method called on the RNN object. Plots to compare the predicted and actual values are generated and the results follow the same distribution 

